Qpid Dispatch Router Idle AutoLink Scrubber (qdials)
====================================================

This tool monitors the autoLinks on a Qpid Dispatch Router (qdrouterd)
and deletes those autoLink configuration records that are classified
as idle.

The goal is to remove stale autoLink configuration entries that
correspond to orphaned queues on a broker.

When qdrouter connects to a broker all autoLinks configured for that
broker will activate.  This entails setting up a link to the broker
for each autoLink entry.  AutoLinks with a direction of 'in' create a
link that consumes messages from the broker (inbound link with respect
to the router).  AutoLinks with a direction of 'out' will create links
that send messages to the broker (outbound with respect to the router).

These links are created automatically on broker connect regardless of
whether or not clients exist that want to publish or consume messages
on the broker.

If the broker is configured to instantiate queues on demand then these
autoLink-generated links will cause queues to be created.  These
queues will remain present until the autoLink configuration associated
with the link to the queue is removed.  This means that the queues
will remain present even when there are no clients that use the queue.

This tool can be used to scan for clients that subscribe to the
autoLink queues and delete the corresponding autoLink configuration
records (and associated links) when there are no subscribers present
for the autoLink address.


Algorithm
---------

The following repeats once for every poll cycle:

 * A connection is made to the router.
 * A management query that requests the current autoLink configuration
  records is sent to the router that
 * For each autoLink that has a direction of 'in':
   * The router is queried for the status of the address associated
     with the queue generated by the in autolink
   * The total number of subscribers to that queue is obtained
   * If the total number of subscribers is zero:
     * The autoLink entry corresponding to the 'in' entry is saved.
 * The newly created list of 'in' autoLinks is compared to the list of
   autoLinks created from the last poll.
   * The autoLinks that are on both lists are deleted.
 * The new list of autoLinks is saved for the next poll.


Note Well
---------

Typical configurations define two autoLink entries for the same
address - one with an "in" direction and another with an "out"
direction. By default this tool only cleans up inbound autoLinks from
the broker (queue subscriber).  This is the default because the router
only tracks subscribers for an address.  Therefore it is impossible
for the router to know if there are any active _producers_ for the
"out" address.  In other words _qdials_ cannot determine whether or
not an "out" autoLink is idle.

_qdials_ supports an option '--remove-outlinks' that will cause
_qdials_ to delete any "out" autoLinks that share the same address as
an "in" autoLink that is deleted.

